Artifacts and Manses and Demense (Under Revision)

You might be wondering where the entries for these are in context of assets- they don't exist. Instead, the significance of an Artifact, Manse and Demense are essentially Backgrounds unto themselves.

This immediately means that if a starting Solar, for example, wants any of these, they must either dedicate their given Major Background to it and it alone, or purchase a new Minor Background to describe how they acquired it.

Artifacts and Manses can allocate their dots to any published or custom Asset that makes sense, such as a sword that grants sovereignty to the bearer, or a manse that produces bumpercrops of produce for a whole region. Independent of those Assets, is the Potency Trait. Potency is essentially the 'classic' artifact dot-rating, roughly sketching in it's power level and utility. It is also a deliberate abstraction, primarily suited for character creation or incidental Artifacts that are important enough to detail, but do not have complex writeups.

As mentioned Prior, Minor, Major and Legendary Backgrounds have limitations on how high a trait can be rated without buying additional dots. A Minor Artifact Background (5 dots), means you can have at most a Potency-3 Artifact with 2 dots divided among other assets related to it's Background. A Grand Daiklave (Potency 3), with Reputation 2 (Used in the battle of Marit Lage), for example.



Manses and Demenses are similar, except that instead of a Potency trait, they must have a Demense Asset in addition to Potency. 

Most Manses taken at character creation are not custom bespoke palaces, but quirky left-overs of prior eras or more recent developments to tap some local resource. When it matters, [Demense + Potency] is used by the storyteller to calculate a manse's budget for powers and other qualities, when not using a Working or Project to build one from the ground up.



Creation is thick with magical places, overlapping dragon lines, and mystical curiosities. Most people live within a day's walk of a one-dot demense, and even urban cityscapes have a few elemental confluences where spirits congregate. There are in fact so many such minor places, that a Demense Asset often encompasses a number of them within a single rating. 

Demenses have very specific locations within their Backgrounds or Locales, and are often sought after by mortal and spirit alike. When taking a Demense Asset, the character is assumed to be the primary owner and authority over it, even when they aren't physically nearby.


Demenses are commonly associated with the Reagent Asset, which reflects the confluence's ability to generate an Essence Token. A Demense cannot generate a Reagent (Essence Token) that exceeds it's demense rating or ranges too far out of the demense's physical and magical characteristics. 

