2e core + expansions

Allies - Draft 1
Artifact - Deprecated
Backing - Deprecated; split apart into other Assets.
Contacts - Undrafted
Cult - Deprecated by Worship
Familiar - Undrafted
Favor - Draft 1
Labor - Draft 1
Influence - Undrafted
Manse - Deprecated
Mentor - Undrafted
Reagent - Draft 1
Workshop - Draft 1
Worship - Draft 1

MoEP DBs:


Arsenal - Materiael budget for arms/armor; each instance applies to a single instance of Command. Arsenal 1 is 'Cheap/basic' and Arsenal 5 is 'Lavishly equipped'
Breeding - Deprecated
Command - You are buying Units, not armies. an 'army' is made of multiple Command and military assets Assets. Command 1 is 'peasant leve', buncha dudes, low stats/drill. Command 5 is 'small specialist unit'. 
Connections - May be folded into Contacts
Family - Definitely want to extend this into a general background w/ DB variant.
Henchmen - Deprecated, replaced by Retainers/Host.
Reputation - Extend this into a general Asset; Face is a subset of Reputation?






Retainers - [Rating x3] Mortal advisors, aides, courtiers and specialists; suitable deputies for regional and project actions. Has 3 competencies rated at 9d, 7d and 5d respectively, with all other pools capped at 4d, which are chosen at time of acquisition. Can serve as special characters in mass units.

Host - [Rating] minor supernatural characters such as strong spirit-blooded, fae warriors, war ghosts, or divine functionaries. 10d/8d/6d competencies with a +3 bonus from a relevant Excellency. Hosts often have one or two Charms unique to their spiritual lineage. Like retainers, they can also be deputies for regional and project actions, or special characters in mass units.

Cultivation - This asset represents access to knowledge of thaumaturgical techniques, rare disciplines or exotic Supernatural Martial Arts. Cultivation 1-3 = thaum, 4 = TMA, 5 = CMA.


Armies as Backgrounds:

Characters do not create armies as single Assets; better to say that you can ahve Command, Arsenal and so on as an Asset in a Bckground, but an actual army is a background made of multiple instancse of those traits.

So when you have Command with a non-army background, that represents a security force, a house guard, etc. The 'classic' army is Retainers/Host for staff and officers, 2+ command assets, and 2+ arsenal assets.